hi this is pressure Locker in this video
I'm going to illustrate an amazing fact
from geometry known as Pascal's theorem
or the hexagram
mysticum we'll get right to the examples
we'll start out by drawing two different
lines and on each line we'll pick 3
points ABC and on the other line a prime
B Prime and C Prime we're going to
connect some of these points together to
get our result so we'll start out by
connecting a with B Prime and
correspondingly B with a prime you'll
notice that these two lines have a point
of intersection and we'll mark that with
a green dot we're going to draw two more
pairs of lines so we'll draw a C Prime
and correspondingly C a prime and you'll
notice that these two lines also have a
point of intersection will mark that
with the green dot finally we'll draw a
B C Prime and C B Prime and once again
these two lines have a point of
intersection which will mark with the
green dot so here's the result here's
Pascal's theorem it's that these three
points these three green dots will
always lie on a line they will always be
on the same line and to illustrate this
it will even be true even if I try and
squish this figure up you'll see that
these three points are always on a line
and I'll try and deform it again these
three points remain on a line and we'll
return back these three points are
always on the same line and this will be
true no matter where you pick the points
for the two different lines the story
gets even more interesting that we can
do this with other shapes so we'll start
out with the circle and we'll pick six
different points and we'll connect
exactly the same pairs of
that we did before so we end up with a
set of three points and you'll very
easily see that these are on the same
line and while I started out with the
circle this will be true even if we have
an ellipse and no matter what the shape
of the ellipse is these three points
will always be on a line let's get more
daring let's start out that will have an
ellipse but this time we're not going to
put ABC all next to each other we'll mix
it up so now when we connect the lines
it looks like we don't have any
intersections we just have a hexagon
which is inside of an ellipse so what we
need to do is we actually need to extend
our lines beyond the shape so we'll
extend a B Prime and B a prime until
they do intersect at a point and we'll
continue so that we keep extending the
opposite pairs of lines until they
intersect and now we have three points
which we denoted with green dots and lo
and behold these actually are on the
same line and this again will be true
pretty much however you draw the shape
and we'll try and deform it you'll see
that this is always these three points
are always on the same line let's get a
little creative we'll take a parabola
we'll draw six different points and
we'll connect the same lines that we've
been connecting once again we found that
the three points of intersection are
going to be on the same line if you
really want to be daring our final
example will be with the hyperbola we'll
pick six different points and connect
the relevant pairs of lines
and almost like magic these three three
green dots are on the same line the
reason this happens it's known as
Pascal's theorem which is from any six
points on a conic section when you draw
out the lines a B prime B prime a a C
prime C prime a and B C prime C prime B
as long as those you know none of those
pairs of lines are parallel as long as
they're non parallel pairs of lines the
points of intersections of those lines
those three points will be collinear and
so that's why it always worked when we
had a hyperbola parabola ellipse or a
circle and to go back to the first
example we started out with two pairs of
lines the reason that works is Pappas is
theorem I provided some links in the
description which will get you to more
details of the math and proof of why it
works I hope you enjoyed this video
please subscribe to my channel you can
catch me on my blog buying your
decisions on Twitter at brushed all
Walker or again my ebooks at Amazon